RHIDP-2800 Creating a custom transformer to provision users from Red … (#615)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-creating-a-custom-transformer-to-provision-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog.adoc

[id="provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog"]

> = Creating a custom transformer to provision users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog

Reviewer: Have we created attributes for Red Hat Single Sign-On, similar to what we have for OSD and OCP?

Author: No

Reviewer: I think we need an attribute

Author: Not under the scope of this task.

> To customize how RHSSO users/groups are mapped into {product} entities, you can create a backend module that utilizes the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers to the Keycloak backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize how RHSSO users and groups are mapped to {product} entities, you can create a backend module that uses the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers for the Keycloak backend.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You xref:provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog[enabled provisioning users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have xref:provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog[enabled provisioning users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog].
```

.Procedure
. Create a new backend module with the `yarn new` command.

. Add your custom user and group transformers to the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint`.

+

> Below is an example of how the backend module can be defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of how the backend module can be defined:
```

+
.`plugins/__<module-name>__/src/module.ts`
[source,javascript]
----
import {
  GroupTransformer,
  keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint,
  UserTransformer,
} from '@janus-idp/backstage-plugin-keycloak-backend';

const customGroupTransformer: GroupTransformer = async (
  entity,
  realm,
  groups,
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};
const customUserTransformer: UserTransformer = async (
  entity,
  user,
  realm,
  groups,
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};

export const keycloakBackendModuleTransformer = createBackendModule({
  pluginId: 'catalog',
  moduleId: 'keycloak-transformer',
  register(reg) {
    reg.registerInit({
      deps: {
        keycloak: keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint,
      },
      async init({ keycloak }) {
        keycloak.setUserTransformer(customUserTransformer);
        keycloak.setGroupTransformer(customGroupTransformer);
        /* highlight-add-end */
      },
    });
  },
});
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> The `pluginId` for the module **MUST** be set to `catalog` to match the `pluginId` of the `keycloak-backend` or else the module will fail to initialize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module's `pluginId` must be set to `catalog` to match the `pluginId` of the `keycloak-backend`; otherwise, the module fails to initialize.
```

====

. Install this new backend module into your {product-short} backend.

.Verification

* {product-short} imports the users and groups each time when started.
Check the console logs to verify that the synchronization is completed.
+
.Successful synchronization example:
[source,json]
----
{"class":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider","level":"info","message":"Read 3 Keycloak users and 2 Keycloak groups in 1.5 seconds. Committing...","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"bf0467ff-8ac4-4702-911c-380270e44dea","timestamp":"2024-09-25 13:58:04"}
{"class":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider","level":"info","message":"Committed 3 Keycloak users and 2 Keycloak groups in 0.0 seconds.","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"bf0467ff-8ac4-4702-911c-380270e44dea","timestamp":"2024-09-25 13:58:04"}
----

> * After the first import is complete, from the *Catalog* page, you can select **User** to list the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After the first import is complete, navigate to the *Catalog* page and select **User** to view the list of users.
```

> * When you select a user, you can see the information imported from RHSSO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you select a user, you see the information imported from RHSSO.
```

> * You can select a group, view the list, and select or view the information imported from RHSSO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can select a group, view the list, and access or review the information imported from RHSSO.
```

[id="provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog"]
= Creating a custom transformer to provision users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog

> To customize how Keycloak users/groups are mapped into {product} entities, you can create a backend module that utilizes the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers to the Keycloak backend.

Author: ```suggestion
To customize how RHSSO users/groups are mapped into {product} entities, you can create a backend module that utilizes the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers to the Keycloak backend.
```

> To customize further how users/groups are mapped into entities in {product}, you can create a custom backend module that utilizes the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers to the keycloak backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To customize how Keycloak users/groups are mapped into {product} entities, you can create a backend module that utilizes the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint` to provide custom user and group transformers to the Keycloak backend.
```

.Prerequisites
* You xref:provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog[enabled provisioning users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog].

.Procedure
. Create a new backend module with the `yarn new` command.

. Add your custom user and group transformers to the `keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint`.

+
Below is an example of how the backend module can be defined:
+
.`plugins/__<module-name>__/src/module.ts`
[source,javascript]
----

> /* highlight-add-start */

Reviewer 2: remove `/* highlight-add-start */` and `/* highlight-add-end */` since it doesn't seem to render properly in the docs

Author: ```suggestion
```

import {
  GroupTransformer,
  keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint,
  UserTransformer,
} from '@janus-idp/backstage-plugin-keycloak-backend';

> const customGroupTransformer: GroupTransformer = async (

Reviewer 2: Same thing with the group transformers ([see GroupTransformer type def](https://github.com/janus-idp/backstage-plugins/blob/ffb600d576c35f207f530817ba11a42a68066661/plugins/keycloak-backend/src/lib/types.ts#L56-L71))

Author: @JessicaJHee Like this? (I am unsure of the correct syntax):

```suggestion
/**
 * Customize the ingested Group entity
 *
 * entity: The output of the default parser
 * realm: Realm name
 * group: Keycloak group representation
 */
const customGroupTransformer: GroupTransformer = async (
```

Reviewer 2: I was thinking you can do right beside the param in the transformer call like:
```
const customGroupTransformer: GroupTransformer = async (
  entity, // entity output from default parser
  realm, // Keycloak realm name
  groups, // Keycloak group representation
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};
```

>   entity,
>   realm,
>   groups,

Author: ```suggestion
  entity, // entity output from default parser
  realm, // Keycloak realm name
  groups, // Keycloak group representation
```

  groups,
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};

> const customUserTransformer: UserTransformer = async (

Reviewer 2: Consider adding comments that explain each arg of the transformer ([see type def](https://github.com/janus-idp/backstage-plugins/blob/ffb600d576c35f207f530817ba11a42a68066661/plugins/keycloak-backend/src/lib/types.ts#L37-L54))

Author: @JessicaJHee Like this? (I am unsure of the correct syntax):

```suggestion
/**
 * Customize the ingested User entity
 *
 * entity: The output of the default parser
 * user: Keycloak user representation
 * realm: Realm name
 * groups: Data about available groups (can be used to create additional relationships)
 */
const customUserTransformer: UserTransformer = async (
```

Reviewer 2: const customUserTransformer: UserTransformer = async (
  entity, // entity output from default parser
  user, // Keycloak user representation
  realm, // Keycloak realm name
  groups, // Keycloak group representation
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};
/* highlight-add-end */

>   entity,
>   user,
>   realm,
>   groups,

Author: ```suggestion
  entity, // entity output from default parser
  user, // Keycloak user representation
  realm, // Keycloak realm name
  groups, // Keycloak group representation
```

  groups,
) => {
  /* apply transformations */
  return entity;
};

> /* highlight-add-end */

Author: ```suggestion
```

export const keycloakBackendModuleTransformer = createBackendModule({
  pluginId: 'catalog',
  moduleId: 'keycloak-transformer',
  register(reg) {
    reg.registerInit({
      deps: {

>         /* highlight-add-start */

Author: ```suggestion
```

        keycloak: keycloakTransformerExtensionPoint,

>         /* highlight-add-end */

Author: ```suggestion
```

      },

>       /* highlight-add-start */

Author: ```suggestion
```

      async init({ keycloak }) {
        keycloak.setUserTransformer(customUserTransformer);
        keycloak.setGroupTransformer(customGroupTransformer);
        /* highlight-add-end */
      },
    });
  },
});
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `pluginId` for the module **MUST** be set to `catalog` to match the `pluginId` of the `keycloak-backend` or else the module will fail to initialize.
====

> . Install this new backend module into your {product-short} backend.

Reviewer 2: May consider adding example on how to do this like: 
`backend.add(import(backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-keycloak-transformer))`

Author: Like this?

```suggestion
. Install this new backend module into your {product-short} backend.
+
[source,javascript]
----
backend.add(import(backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-keycloak-transformer))
----
```

Reviewer 2: Yes that looks good!
